- [Narrator] In the next two chapters of the course,
we're going to explore Maven and Gradle,
which are two popular build tools used with Java.
Before diving in to those specific technologies,
let's take a high-level look at what we can expect
from a build tool and how they're used.
At a high level, build tools allow us to define
how our software project is converted into an artifact
that we can distribute and run on other platforms.
It makes this process repeatable by allowing us
to define a configuration file or a build script
that contains information about our project
and the tasks necessary to turn its source code
into an artifact.
Using the configuration file, the build tool can then
automate the execution of those tasks
to ensure that every time we perform a build,
it's executed consistently.
Most build tools have an ecosystem of plugins
that can be included within our configuration file
to easily perform different actions
during our build lifecycle.
Another great feature of some build tools,
like Gradle and Maven,
is their dependency management systems.
These make it much easier to include external libraries
within our projects.
Here's how dependency management works at a high level.
Imagine that we wanted to use Selenium
for some testing within our project.
We would just add its dependency information
within the configuration file for our build tool.
Selenium itself might have a dependency on another library,
let's say, the Selenium IE driver,
which in turn might use another library, like Guava.
When one module depends on another like this,
it's known as a transitive dependency.
All of these libraries need to find their way
onto the class path when we run our application,
and it can be painful to manually manage this graph,
especially to get all the versions lined up just right.
A build tool makes that easy.
It walks the dependency graph for you
and automatically pulls in the transitive dependencies
based on metadata each dependency declares
in its own configuration.
So at a high level, it kind of looks like this.
We define a configuration file for the build tool
that describes our project,
things like what dependencies the project needs,
what tasks to complete when building the source,
and what plugins we use in those tasks.
The build tool takes this configuration file
and all of the resources within our project
and starts executing the build.
If it needs dependencies,
it reaches out to an artifact repository
and pulls them in during the build process.
Once the build is complete,
it produces an artifact that packages our compiled software.
There are two primary ways a build tool is used.
First, developers typically use them
during the development workflow
to build and assemble their software locally.
This is normally performed via integration with their IDE,
and they might not even be fully aware
they're using a build tool in the background.
Build tools also play an important role in the CI process,
where they compile and package our source code
for each check-in on an isolated server.
This is typically triggered by an automation server,
like Jenkins.
The isolated server provides us a clean environment
to build the software
without any influence from one-off configurations
that might exist on a developer workstation.
These high-level concepts will apply to our work
with both Maven and Gradle,
so keep them in mind during the upcoming lessons.